First and foremost: SAVE STRUCTURE!

So far, "white.ini" shows the following structure (Section and variable order shifts frequently):
(All numbers are expresssed as 6-decimal integers for some reason.)

[gotyou]
slowly - This variables appears (and is immediately set to 1) when the fake close occurs after using the Pulsating Heart the first time.
This section disappears from the INI after the White Face segment is over.

[Language]
lang - equals 1 if English is set, otherwise French is set.

[imscared]
myheartinyourhands - Set to 1 when the game is ready to be cleared by deleting heart.txt.
mprcsflwr - Set to 2 when first attacked by White Face in the B&W section. Set to 3 after the second attack. Set to 4 after the third attack. Set to 6 after the attack after trying to commit suicide. 
pipClear - Door raised?
valveA - Valve A set?
valveB - Valve B set?
valveC - Valve C set?
unseen - You Shouldn't Be Here achievement.
mEnded - Store segment complete.
energy - Set to 1 after cutting power. Set to 0 after power comes back on.
getcutter - Set to 1 after geting cutter from outside trash.
openoffice - Set to 1 after opening office.
officekey - Set to 1 after getting the Office Key.
cutter - Set to 1 after throwing away cutter.
mail - Set to 1 when dropping off Letter.
getletter - Set to 1 when grabbing the Letter outside.
freezekey - Set to 1 when getting the freezer key.
openfreeze - Set to 1 if freezer is open.
setletter - Set to 1 if you put the letter under the door.
hended - Killed HER...?
hend - HEnded achievement.
revo - No idea. Set to 1 after killing HER.
ticket - Set to 1 if you have the Metro Ticket.
luckytwo - No idea. Set to 1 after spawning the train.
sub - No idea. Set to 2 after spawning the train.
luckyonce - No idea. Set to 1 after spawning the train.
luckyTicks - Lucky Tickets achievement.
lab - Gramophone layout...?
keepcontact - Thanks for staying achievement.
buryHer - Set to 1 after resuming after mat exit/after dropping down into the hedge maze.
mircode - Mirror code. Mine was index 4 and my mirror string was "Hatred Bond", so my code was "15204".
peektwice - Peek-a-TWO Achievement.
end - Set to 1 after the White Face segment ends.
ended - Set to 1 after the White Face segment ends.
wallsecret - Heaven's Door achievement.
tag - Master Tag achievement.
bs - No clue. Set to 1 (and added if not in the INI yet) after picking up the Pulsating Heart.
labClear - If 1, gramophone segment is done. Cleared after killing HER...?
subClear - No idea.
key - Various values on what you've picked something up.
roomNext - Room index. Valid values TBD.
peekone - Peek-a-Boo achievement.

[exists]
yes - No clue.

[loneliness]
sub - No idea. Always 0. Setting to 1 does nothing.
bas - No idea. Always 0. Setting to 1 does nothing.
goodbye - No idea. Always 1. Setting to 0 restarts the game from the tutorial.

"workshop.ini":

Created after the tutorial. Existence determines whether tutorial has been done.
[newme]
ws - Set to 1 when you start the HER segment. Set to 0 after dropping into the hedge maze.

[exists]
yes - No clue.

[imscared]
roomNext - Room index for the HER segment of the game. Spawns after the second startup in this section or after the mat exit.